- Hi and welcome back.
In this video we're looking just at
a few things that we can do
with lists, tuples, and sets.
The first thing that we can do with a list
that we cannot do with a
tuple is to increase its size.
I'm gonna just remove a few elements
from these things so they're
a bit easier to understand.
So we can do something
like grades.append(100)
And what that will do, it
will add an item at the end.
That's what append means.
So when we print grades
out, which I will do now,
I'm gonna first clear this though,
I'm gonna run the programme,
it's gonna print grades,
and I'm sure that you know
what is gonna come out.
Remember, we've got the
list with three elements
and then we're adding one at the end.
So what comes out is the ordered list.
Lists are always ordered in the order
that we put elements in.
So, it's not in ascending order.
If we change this for 50
and we run this again,
the 50 is still at the end.
So it's not ascending order, it's just
the order that it was created in.
So in this case, 77, 80,
90, and then 50 at the end.
The tuple, however, you cannot do this.
So you cannot increase
the size of the tuple.
But what we can do, however,
is to change the tuple entirely.
We can say tuple_grades
= tuple_grades + (100,)
And notice that this is some very
specific syntax I'm using here.
And I'm gonna show you
exactly what that is.
What I'm saying is tuple_grades is a box.
It is a box that currently has this tuple.
But now what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna say
tuple_grades is a box, and
is a box that has this value.
Notice that the fact that
I'm using tuple_grades
to assign to tuple_grades
isn't a problem in Python.
All that this will do is it will
evaluate the right side first
and then it will put it into this box.
So all it will do is it will say,
"What's tuple_grades?
"Oh, that's this tuple
here, (77, 80, 90)."
And it's gonna add another
tuple to it, which is 100.
Notice how there has to
be a comma at the end.
If there is no comma, this is not a tuple,
this is a number with a pair of
useless brackets around it.
So you must have the comma there
if you only have one element.
If you have two elements,
then you'll always
have the comma there, of course,
because you need to separate
the elements somehow.
Okay, so make sure to keep the comma,
and then we're gonna run this and
you know what's gonna come out.
And it is as you would expect.
We've not changed the tuple.
The tuple is still (77, 80, 90).
What we've done is we have
calculated what it would be
to add two tuples and we've
put that in the variables.
We've not actually changed this tuple.
We've only calculated a new tuple.
Okay.
So that is all good.
What do I mean with "change the tuple"?
Well, there's a few things that we can do.
I'm gonna delete that
line and I'm gonna say
print(grades[0])
Notice how we've got some
square brackets there
and inside it we've got zero.
This grades variable is our list
and we know that there is
no value zero in this list.
So, what do you think this is
going to do when we run it?
Will it give us an error?
Will it print something out?
Well, let's find out.
Okay, so 77 comes out.
There's no error and that's
because this zero here
is not meaning one of these values.
It's meaning the position of the value.
We always start counting from zero,
so grades[0] is the first element,
grades[1] Would be the second element,
grades[2] Would be the
third element, and so on.
So this is index 0, index 1, index 2.
And obviously, because this is a list
and we can change lists, we can also say
grades[0] = 60 and then we can
assign a value to this specific element.
So I'm gonna save that and run it again,
and what do you think
is gonna come out now?
We've probably changed
element number zero,
and now we've printing
the grades after it.
So, what do you think is
going to be printed out?
As you would expect, the [60, 80, 90]
because the list has changed.
We've changed the zeroth
element, the first element,
and we've made it 60 instead of 77.
Now I'm gonna copy this
tuple_grades and paste it in here.
And what do you think is
gonna happen when we run this,
knowing that a tuple is immutable
and you cannot change it?
And this is what we get.
We get a traceback, just
a list of what went wrong,
and it says that it went
wrong in our file, line six,
and the line that failed
is tuple_grades[0] = 60
This equal sign is called assignment,
and that's when we assign
a value, 60 in this case,
to something, in this
case, tuple_grades[0]
So the error we get is
a TypeError that says,
"'tuple' object does not
support item assignment."
You cannot assign things.
Why?
Because an assignment will
most likely change things.
And you cannot change things because
this is a tuple and tuples are immutable.
So this fails because we cannot
change the values in a tuple.
Finally, let's have a look at set_grades.
This is a bit of a funny one because
we know that sets are not immutable,
so we should be able to change it.
But we also know they are unordered.
So, if they don't have an order,
which element is element number zero?
Is it 77, is it 80, is it 90?
Is it any of them?
So what do you think will
happen when we run the file now?
The same thing.
Because it's unordered,
it doesn't make sense
to access a specific
element because that element
may not be the same every time.
So we get essentially the same error,
"'set' object does not
support item assignment."
However, we can add things to a set.
We can do that with the add method.
So we can say set_grades.add
and then add the 60 to it.
And as you can see, that puts the 60
in there, in the set somewhere.
And of course, if we run this twice,
this still only appears once,
we don't get an error.
We just get nothing because the 60
was already there when we added it.
So it only appears once.
Okay, so this is a few
things that you can do
with lists, tuples, and sets,
and we've also looked at
exactly what immutable means
and also some things that you cannot do
with tuples and sets,
and we've also looked at
how to append elements to a list,
and that's just doing grades.append
and then we can append
another element to the list.
In the next video, we're going to look at
some more advanced and
specific set operations
that we can use, and they have
a very particular set of use cases,
or scenarios that we may wanna use them
in computer science and
in software development,
so pay attention and I'll see
you in the very next video.